I once heard somebody say,
"greatness is achieved when personal mastery inspires the masses."
That's the greatest definition of greatness I've ever heard.
Now, although I love that quote, it's not the focus of this episode.
When I say being great, it's easier than ever.
I mean, it's easier than ever to be the best at whatever it is you do.
Whatever your occupation, craft, personal interests, personality type, it doesn't matter.
Being great is easier than ever.
And I say that because no matter what it is, you're trying to succeed at in this life,
You're going to have competition.
Now, of course, your only real competition is yourself, but you get my point, right?
You could be trying to get a job or start a company, earn a scholarship, win a game.
There's going to be competition. But here's the thing.
50% of your competition really ain't worth shit, to begin with.
They won't even show up when it's game time.
And what I mean is 50% of the people you're competing with won't even try.
You beat them simply by taking a chance and getting started.
To prove my point I want you to stop and ask yourself if you've ever met someone who was always talking about what they were going to do,
But never telling you about what they did.
And I've got good news for you. That's 50% of the people that you perceive as a threat.
That's 50% of the people you believe are capable of beating you.
I've talked to so many people with great potential to do amazing things,
But they simply refuse to take action and make something happen.
It's just easier to make excuses, and, you know, maybe even not think about it at all. Right?
And it's kind of sad, but that's the way it is. A lot of people have dreams,
But not everyone is willing to do what it takes to realize them, right?
But now let's talk about the other 50% of your competition.
30% of your competitors are totally fine with doing just the bare minimum. Just enough to get by.
They're not hungry. They're not motivated. They're not goal-oriented. They're comfortable.
The older I get, the more I realize just how dangerous comfort can be.
But anyway, 30%. 30% of your competitors don't have their heart and soul invested into what they're doing like you do.
They're not taking the time to study and get better. They're not putting in the work. They're not proactive.
They're simply not on your level, you know. They could be, but they choose not to be.
What that means is if you're simply willing to do more,
Learn more and give more than just the bare minimum and show up every single day,
You've already beat 80% of your competition. 80%.
So many people are just trying to get by, so many people are comfortable with the life that was handed to them.
People are preoccupied with all types of nonsense, like toxic relationships,
Vanity, gossip, people's opinions, the fear of failure, and embarrassment.
But that's not you. You are a cut above the rest. You feel me? And you know why?
Because you're putting your money where your mouth is.
You're not just saying you're going to improve your English.
You're investing time, effort, and money into your education.
You're listening to this podcast. You're practicing your English with me and other VIPs.
You're engaged. You're asking questions. You're focused on fluency.
While 80% of the people in the same position as you are busy doing everything except trying to improve their English.
And like I said, this is true for everything you want to achieve in life.
And of course, learning English is not a competition, but I'm sure you get my point.
Learning English could be the difference between getting the last job opening or scholarship vacancy or exchange program spot.
So in that sense, it is a competition.
But let's not forget the last 20%. This right here is your competition,
Just 20% of the people who are trying to achieve the same goal as you are actually going to make an effort.
You know, there's this concept called 'the Pareto Principle' P A R E T O, PARETO.
I'm sure there's a correct way to pronounce it, and it's not the way I just pronounced it, but just follow me.
Pareto principle, this principle says that about 80% of the results come from about 20% of the effort.
No matter what it is you're doing.
So if you're running a business, just 20% of all the work you do is generating 80% of the revenue.
The other 80% of the work you're doing only produces 20% of the results.
That's why, as a business owner, you must find a way to let other people,
Or even robots do the things that aren't producing the majority of the results.
You need to put all your time and energy into the 20% of the things that are generating all the revenue.
The other 80% of things are just robbing you of time and energy,
And they don't produce nearly the same quality of results.
So getting back to your competition,
It's safe to say that 20 out of 100 people are going to take advantage of and enjoy 80% of the opportunities to be great and successful.
The other 80%, or excuse me, the other 80 out of 100 people
Will have to fight over the remaining 20% of opportunities to be successful.
And by simply showing up every day and giving it your best shot,
You'll be part of the 20% that actually knows what it means to work hard and be successful.
Now, of course, you'll still have to compete.
The top 20% of competitors are in the top 20% for a reason, right?
They wanted just as bad as you.
They're willing to work the long hours, study on weekends,
Step outside their comfort zones, find solutions to their problems.
They're dedicated, they're driven, they're hungry, and they are ready to take your lunch.
Now, that might sound a little sinister, but it's the truth.
It's just a part of life. And I'd much rather compete with 20 people than a hundred people.
Now, maybe it's not really healthy to think about life as a competition because it really is not a competition,
But the fact of the matter is there are hundreds, maybe even thousands of people who had the same dream as you.
And they won't stop at anything until they realize that dream.
They won't stop at anything until they achieve greatness.
So all you have to decide is which side of the line you fall on.
The 80% of underachievers or the 20% of go-getters.
Is easier than ever to be great,
Because the vast majority of your competition won't even get out of bed to challenge you.
You'll see results and maybe even get recognized if you simply do more than the bare minimum.
If you just show up every single day and stay focused on growth and improvement,
It won't be long before you and all those around you recognize your greatness, man.
You might realize that it was nowhere near as hard as you thought it was going to be,
And you'll probably start to understand why I'm always saying stop making excuses and just fucking do it.
So it's up to you. You know? Greatness or mediocrity?
Who you become and where you end up in life is a reflection of your choices.
So I hope you choose greatness.